# Getting Your Message Across Using Design

- The primary aim of any kind of visual design is to communicate. Organizing and prioritizing information on a page helps users understand its importance and what order to read it in.
## Content

- Web pages often have a lot of information to communicate.
- For example, the pages of online newspapers will have information that does not appear on every page of the print equivalent:
	- A masthead or logo
	- Links to navigate the site
	- Links to related content and other popular articles
	- Login or membership options
	- Ability for users to comment
	- Copyright information
	- Links to privacy policies, terms and conditions, advertising information, RSS feeds, subscription options
## Prioritizing

- If everything on a page appeared in the same style, it would be much harder to understand. (Key messages would not stand out.) 
- By making parts of the page look ***distinct*** from surrounding content, designers draw attention to (or away from) those items.
- Designers create something known as a ***visual hierarchy*** to help users focus on the key messages that will draw people's attention, and then guide them to subsequent messages.
## Organizing

- Grouping together related content into blocks or chunks makes the page look simpler (and easier to understand).
- Users should be able too identify the purpose of each block without processing each individual item.
- By presenting certain types of information in a similar visual style (such as using the same style for all buttons or all links), users will learn to associate that style with a particular type of content.

- With so much on the page, the designer needs to organize and prioritize the information to communicate their message and help users find what they're looking for.

---
