# Who is the Site For?

- Every website should be designed for the target audience - not just for yourself or the site owner. It is therefore very important to understand who your target audience is.

- It can be helpful to ask some questions about the people you would expect to be interested in the subject of your site.

- If you ask a client who a site is for, it is not uncommon for them to answer "the entire world."

- Realistically, it is unlikely to be relevant to everyone. If your site sells light bulbs, even though most people using a computer probably use light bulbs, they are not likely to order them from someone in a different country.

- Even if the site has a wide appeal, you can still think about the demographics of a sample of the target audience.
## Target Audience: Individuals

- What is the age range of your target audience?
- Will your site appeal to more women or men? What is the mix?
- Which country do your visitors live in?
- Do they live in urban or rural areas?
- What is the average income of visitors?
- What level of education do they have?
- What is their marital or family status?
- What is their occupation?
- How many hours do they work per week?
- How often do they use the web?
- What kind of device do they use to access the web?
## Target Audience: Companies

- What is the size of the company or relevant department?
- What is the position of people in the company who visit your site?
- Will visitors be using the site for themselves or for someone else?
- How large is the budget they control?

- Invent some fictional visitors from your typical target audience. They can influence design decisions from color palettes to level of detail in descriptions.

- If you have a question about how the site is going to be used, or what its priorities should be, you will be able to think back and ask yourself, "What would your fictional visitor want in this situation?"

---
