# Why People Visit YOUR Website

- Now that you know who your visitors are, you need to consider why they are coming. While some people will simply chance across your website, most will visit for a specific reason.

- Your content and design should be influenced by the goals of your users.
- To help determine why people are coming to your website, there are two basic categories of questions you can ask:
1. The first attempts to discover the underlying motivations for why visitors come to the site.
2. The second examines the specific goals of the visitors.
- These are the triggers making them come to the site now.
## Key Motivations

- Are they looking for general entertainment or do they need to achieve a specific goal?
- If there is a specific goal, is it a personal or professional one?
- Do they see spending time on this activity as essential or a luxury?
## Specific Goals

- Do they want general information/research (such as background on a topic/company), or are they after something specific (such as a particular fact or information on a product)?
- Are they already familiar with the service or product that you offer or do they need to be introduced to it?
- Are they looking for time sensitive information, such as the latest news or updates on a particular topic?
- Do they want to discover information about a specific product or service to help them decide whether to buy it or not?
- Do they need to contact you? If so, can they visit in person (which might require opening hours and a map)? Or might they need email or telephone contact details?

---
