# What Information Your Visitors Need

- You know who is coming to your site and why they are coming, so now you need to work out what information they need in order to achieve their goals quickly and effectively.

- You may want to offer additional supporting information that you think they might find helpful.
- Look at each of the reasons why people will be visiting your site and determine what they need to achieve their goals.
- You can prioritize levels of information from key points down to non-essential or background information.
- By ensuring that you provide the information that your visitors are looking for, they will consider your site more relevant to them.
- Therefore, you will have more opportunity to tell them any extra information that you think would be helpful to them (or to expose them to other products and services you want to promote).
- If you do not appear relevant to them by answering their needs, however, they are likely to go elsewhere.
- Here are some questions to help you decide what information to provide for visitors to your site...
## Key Information

- Will visitors be familiar with your subject area/brand or do you need to introduce yourself?
- Will they be familiar with the product/service/information you are covering or do they need background information on it?
- What are the most important features of what you are offering?
- What is special about what you offer that differentiates you from other sites that offer something similar?
- Once people have achieved the goal that sent them to your site, are there common questions people ask about this subject area?

---
