# Search Engine Optimization (SEO)

- SEO is a huge topic and several books have been written on the subject. The following pages will help you understand the key concepts so you can improve your website's visibility on search engines.
## The Basics

- Search engine optimization (or SEO) is the practice of trying to help your site appear nearer the top of search engine results when people look for the topics that your website covers.
- At the heart of SEO is the idea of working out which terms people are likely to enter into a search engine to find your site and then using these terms in the right places on your site to increase the chances that search engines will show a link to your site in their results.
- In order to determine who comes first in the search results, search engines do not only look at what appears on your site. They also consider how many sites link to you (and how relevant those links are). For this reason, SEO is often split into two areas: on-page techniques and off-page techniques.
## On-Page Techniques

- On-page techniques are the methods you can use on your web pages to improve their rating in search engines.
- The main component of this is looking at keywords that people are likely to enter into a search engine if they wanted to find your site, and then including these in the text and HTML code for your site in order to help the search engines know that your site covers these topics.
- Search engines rely very heavily on the text that is in your pages so it is important that the terms people are going to search for are in text. There are seven essential places where you want your keywords to appear.
- Ensuring that any images have appropriate text in the value of their `alt` attribute also helps search engines understand the content of images.
## Off-Page Techniques

- Getting other sites to link to you s just as important as on-page techniques. Search engines help determine how to rank your site by looking at the number of other sites that link to yours.
- They are particularly interested in sites whose content is related to yours. For example, if you were running a website that sold fish bait, then a link from a hairdresser is not likely to be considered as relevant as one from an angling community.
- Search engines also look at the words between the opening `<a>` tag and closing `</a>` tag in the link. If the text in the link contains keywords (rather than just click here or your website address) it may be considered more relevant.
- The words that appear in links to your site should also appear in the text of the page that the site links to.

---
