# On-Page SEO

- In every page of your website there are seven key places where keywords can appear in order to improve its findability.
## 1. Page Title

- The page title appears at the top of the browser window or on the tab of a browser. It is specified in the `<title>` element which lives inside the `<head>` element.
## 2. URL/Web Address

- The name of the file is part of the URL. Where possible, use keywords in the file name.
## 3. Headings

- If the keywords are in a heading `<hn >` element then a search engine will know that this page is all about that subject and give it greater weight than other text.
## 4. Text

- Where possible, it helps to repeat the keywords in the main body of the text at least 2-3 times. Do not, however, over-use these terms, because the text must be easy for a human to read.
## 5. Link Text

- Use keywords in the text that create links between pages (rather than using generic expressions such as "click here").
## 6. Image Alt Text

- Search engines rely on you providing accurate descriptions of images in the `alt` text. This will also help your images show up in the results of image-based searches.
## 7. Page Descriptions

- The description also lives inside the `<head>` element and is specified using a `<meta>` tag. It should be a sentence that describes the content of the page. (These are not shown in the browser window but they may be displayed in the results pages of search engines.)

- Never try to fool search engines! They will penalize you for it. For exam - 15ple, never add text in the same color as the background of the page as they can detect this.

---
