# How to Identify Keywords and Phrases

## 1. Brainstorm

- List down the words that someone might type into Google to find your site. Be sure to include the various topics, products or services your site is about.
- Your list may include some keyword phrases (not just individual words) if you have topics which are described by more than one word.
## 2. Organize

- Group the keywords into separate lists for the different sections or categories of your website.
## 3. Research

- There are several tools that let you enter your keywords and then they will suggest additional keywords you might like to consider, such as: 
	- adwords.google.co.uk/select/KeywordToolExternal (When using this tool, select the "exact match" option rather than "broad match.")
	- www.wordtracker.com
	- www.keyworddiscovery.com
- Once these tools have suggested additional keywords, add the relevant options to your lists.
- (Keyword tools will most likely suggest some terms that are irrelevant so do omit any that do not seem appropriate).
## 4. Compare

- It is very unlikely that your site will appear at the top of the search results for every keyword. This is especially true for topics where there is a lot of competition. The more sites out there that have already been optimized for a given keyword, the harder it will be for you to rise up the search results when people search on that term.
- Some of the keyword research sites can tell you how many people have searched for a specific keyword to help you know how much competition those terms have.
- You can also use Google's advanced search feature to just search the titles of web pages. This will help you to determine how many sites have that keyword in the title of their pages. (The more pages with the term in the title, the more competition there is.)
## 5. Refine

- Now you need to pick which keywords you will focus on. These should always be the ones that are most relevant to each section of your site.
- If there is a phrase that is very relevant but you find there is a lot of competition, you should still use it. To improve the chances of your site being found you can look at whether there are other words that could be incorporated into a phrase.
- For example, if the information or service you offer on your website is location specific, then you will often find that incorporating your location into your keyword list will help people find you.
## 6. Map

- Now that you have a refined list of keywords, you know which have the most competition, and which ones are most relevant, it is time to start picking which keywords you will use for each page.
- Pick 3-5 keywords or phrases that map to each page of your website and use these as the keywords for each page.
- You should not need to repeat the same keywords on all of the pages. It is also likely that, as you move further away from the homepage into the sections of the site, the keywords will become more specific to the individual topic dealt with on each page.

---
