# Where Are Your Visitors Coming From?

- The traffic sources link on the left hand side allows you to learn where your visitors are coming from.
## Referrers

- This shows the sites that have linked to you and the number of people who have come via those sites. If a site sends a lot of traffic to you, get in touch and try to work together to ensure that traffic keeps flowing. You could also try to find similar sites and ask them to link to you.
## Direct

- This shows which page a user arrived on if they did not come via a link on another site. They might have typed the URL into their browser, used a browser bookmark, or clicked a link in an email, PDF, or Word document.
## Search Terms

- This shows the terms users entered into a search engine to find your site. This can help you learn how visitors describe what they're looking for (which is often different to how someone might describe their own site). This can help you fine-tune your content and your SEO keywords.
## Advanced Features

- We have only scratched the surface of what you can find out about your visitors from Google Analytics. 
- Their help files tell you many more of the advanced features. If you run an online shop, it is well worth looking at their e-commerce tracking, which adds information about products sold, average basket size and much more.
- You can also set up goals where you specify the paths you want people to take, and then see how far they get through those paths, which is especially useful when gathering data from users.
 - 15
---
