# Domain Names & Hosting

- In order to put your site on the web you will need a domain name and web hosting.
## Domain Names

- Your domain name is your web address. There are many websites that allow you to register domain names. Usually you will have to pay an annual fee to keep that domain name.
- These sites usually have a form that allows you to check whether your preferred domain name is available, and because millions of domain names have already been registered, it might take you a while to find the one that is right for your site.
- A lot of sites that offer domain name registration also offer web hosting.
## Web Hosting

- So that other people can see your site, you will need to upload it to a web server. Web servers are special computers that are constantly connected to the Internet. They are specially set up to serve web pages when they are requested. 
- With the exception of some very large sites, most websites live on web servers run by web hosting companies. This is usually far cheaper and more reliable than trying to run your own web servers. 
- There are lots of different types of hosting on offer. We will now take a look at some of the key things that will help you choose which hosting company to use
### Disk Space

- This refers to the total size of all of the files that make up your site (all of the HTML and CSS files, images and scripts).
### Bandwidth

- This is the amount of data the hosting company will send to your site's visitors. If you imagine 10 people looked at every page on your site, then it would be the equivalent to 10 times the amount of disk space you use. 
### Backups

- Check whether the hosting company performs backups on your site (and how often). Some only create backups so that they can restore your website in the event of a server breaking.
- Others allow access to backups (which can be helpful if you accidentally break the site when updating it).
### Email Accounts

- Most hosting companies will provide email servers with their web hosting packages. You will want to check the size of mailbox you are allowed and the number of mailboxes you can use.
### Server-Side Languages and Databases

- If you are using a content management system, it will likely use a server-side programming language and a database (such as PHP with a MySQL database, or ASP.Net with a SQL Server database). Be sure to check that your hosting company supports the technologies your software needs to run.

- It is often worth searching for reviews of a hosting company to see what other people's experience has been with a hosting company. Unfortunately, you often can only tell how good a hosting company is when something goes wrong, at which point you find out how they are able to help you (so you can expect to see a few negative reviews for any company).
## Hosted Services

- There are a number of online services that allow you to point your domain name to their servers. Blogging platforms such as `WordPress.com`, `Tumblr`, and `Posterous`, or e-commerce platforms such as ***Big Cartel*** and ***Shopify*** provide the servers that your site is hosted on. If you are using a platform like this you will not need your own hosting for the website, although you often still need hosting for your email. If this is the case, some web hosting companies offer packages that will just offer email services.

---
